[Music]
welcome to one division
crammed this is the tv series
continuation of the marvel cinematic
universe
that kicks off phase four and isn't
afraid to get weird
feeling like a cross between a cosmic
horror of annihilation and the youtube
video
too many cooks there are a million
easter eggs and things to watch out for
but we're gonna follow the events
themselves as they unfold
let's go
[Music]
immediately we are thrown into an early
1960s dick van dyke style sitcom
starring wanda maximoff and her husband
vision
this isn't the real world reality of the
marvel universe that we're used to
and vision's very presence following his
bad run-in with thanos
is racking up the questions it seems the
plucky couple has just moved into town
trying to blend in and hide their witch
powers and synthetic life-form status
as well as getting to know the locals
like their neighbor agnes who's got all
the helpful sass you could want from a
side character
while classic 1960s crosswise hijinx
ensues as vision invites his boss from
the office over for an important dinner
while
wonder thinks with a little help from
agnes that she needs to sexy things up
for a romantic anniversary evening as a
couple it all seems to follow the
classic tropes as they scramble to
adjust the evening and validate the
mix-up and overly warm greeting
just as a sarkovian thing they managed
to pull things together
but during dinner are both unable to
recall where they came from or why they
don't have children yet
vision's boss starts choking on his food
and the characters suddenly feel like
they're caught in a lynchian feedback
loop of repeated phrases
that holds for flow and gives an
unsettling edge to the scene before
wonder commands vision to help
as if giving an instruction off script
with our first camera angles that
suddenly don't feel like they belong in
front of a live studio audience
and then the moment passes as if never
happening at all
the boss highly impressed with the
evening wants to talk to visioning for
morning about that promotion
and the couple settle in for the credits
to roll only for the show to be observed
in a real-life monitoring room
by someone taking notes in episode 2's
bewitch style late 60s format the
sleeping couple is interrupted by some
bumps in the night
and bring the beds together for some
bumping of their own they're practicing
a magic hack for the local talent show
fundraiser because if westview is to be
their new home
they're gonna have to fit in but a
deeper resounding bump that day leads
wander to discover a red helicopter in
her rose bushes ominous by its colorful
appearance
and sword logo but agnes interrupts her
train of thought to provide a rabbit for
their show
they're off for a ladies lunch to meet
the other housewives and need to impress
the judgmental head of the gang dottie
who's on all the committees
and running this fundraiser for the
children and wanda befriends geraldine
another new lady to the neighborhood but
during the cleanup something strange
happens as dottie seems to break
character
during a moment of stress and demands to
know who wanda really is
and why she's here while the radio
static broadcasts a voice that asks
who's doing all this
meanwhile at the neighborhood watch
meeting vision eats a stick of gum that
manages to jam up his insides and cause
him to malfunction
so now he's using his genuine abilities
to impress the locals just a little bit
too much
and wonder has to cover their tracks by
making each superpower
look like a simple stage illusion with a
little bit of post-production
and to keep the show running smoothly
and cover vision's mistakes
she teleports geraldine into the mystery
cabinet before clearing out his issue
fortunately they're a hit with the
neighborhood and the planning committee
gives them a fundraising round of
applause for the children with geraldine
trying to fathom why she was outside the
stage area and then suddenly
inside the show well it looks like
wonder is indeed now pregnant and after
yet another bump in the night they head
out front to discover a beekeeper
bearing that sword logo emerge from the
sewer
and wonder appears to be in control as
she simply says no
and rewinds the footage to their
previous moments at home
updating the entire show into glorious
technicolor
episode 3 is an amalgamation of 70s
family sitcoms where the westview town
doctor confirms her pregnancy is already
four months along
despite it having only been 12 hours the
doctor leaves for his bermuda holiday
and their neighbor herb seems to be
glitching in his role of trimming the
hedge
vision as if becoming himself outside of
the show's atmosphere for a moment
tells wonder that something feels wrong
but as if the scene is suddenly cut
it's never happened at all it's time to
redecorate for the baby but it's now
already kicking at six months and
causing the odd hiccup in wonder's magic
in fact as it matures at an accelerated
rate wanda's pregnancy is causing all
sorts of magical mishaps
so vision heads off to get the doctor
back while a 70s sassy geraldine pops
over for a chat as wanda tries to hide
for baby bump
and a living stork that's materialized
in the house she seems unable to
magically control things
related to the pregnancy and upon
hearing a noise geraldine drops her
accent in a moment of genuine concern
before slipping back into the role as if
it never happened
fortunately the doctor's car won't start
so he's still in town
lamenting that no one is ever able to
escape the place before vision snatches
him up to hurry back home
where there's no more hiding for tummy
as the baby is due
and geraldine steps up to provide
emotional support
and help deliver the baby vision and the
doctor arrived just too late
but not completely as it turns out that
wonder is having twins and so billy and
tommy maximov
are introduced to this world out front
however
herb and agnes seem uncharacteristically
concerned about geraldine who has no
husband
no family and no home herb seems to be
trying to television something but
agnes stops him with a look of fear and
just like that
they slip back into their characters and
as wanda recalls her own twin brother
pietro she sings a sarkovian lullaby
they knew his children and as if
partially lifting a spell geraldine
blurts out
that he was killed by ultron and wonder
turns on her
realizing that she's a trespasser that
doesn't belong
in her narrative anda's vision rush is
inconcerned
she's already gone and with that the
aspect ratio on west view changes taking
us
outside the town into reality where
she's ejected out of a tv-like barrier
in a reef of energy surrounded by agents
so it's time for a flashback as we get
to take a first-hand
look at people re-materializing during
the unsnapping from avengers end game in
a crowded hospital it's pure chaos as
captain monica rambo maria's daughter
from captain marvel returns amidst
confusion to discover her mother died
three years ago of cancer
two years after she herself was snapped
out of existence
cut to the sentient weapon observation
center known as sword
three weeks later where she reports back
into work to discover that under
director tyler hayward their manned
mission space job has mostly devolved
into observing crazy threats from outer
space
seeing as things in the mcu have gotten
pretty funky since the good old days of
phase one
so back to work but her first assignment
is to go act as a liaison to the fbi
and help agent jimmy wu track down a
missing informant under the witness
protection program
but it's weird as the local forces
outside the town think westview doesn't
even exist
like a blind spot in their awareness and
after a drone disappears
monica discovers an invisible barrier
surrounding the town
before getting sucked in so now sword
starts to investigate directly
and having no idea what they're looking
at bring in a team of mixed scientists
including dr darcy lewis from for four
films who quickly discovers a large
amount of background cosmic radiation
coming from the town that seems to be
broadcasting a signal
on old tv wavelengths so they set one up
and
darcy wu and the rest of sword tune into
one division the real-time sitcom
alternative reality that seems to be
happening inside
the barrier and they're also confused as
to why vision is playing one of the lead
roles when at least he
should be dead dead and it turns out
darcy
is for one taking notes director tyler
hayward tries sending in a man through
the sewers under the barrier to
investigate
but the thing extends down as well as up
and he has transformed into something
more appropriate to the 60s setting
a beekeeper which wonder then kicks from
her show
meanwhile the other characters are
identified as being actual
real people from the town who have
somehow been rewritten to play as
characters in wonders reality
though no id yet found for agnes and
they discover that moniker
is in there too and it was jimmy who was
trying to talk to wonder by transmitting
through the radio
before their efforts were cut by that
hard edit
they catch up to episode 3 where
geraldine i.e monika
is edited out of the show realizing the
broadcast is being censored
while inside the west view reality
wander used her power to blast the
trespasser all the way
out of town and through the barrier
without killing her
before cleaning up the evidence this
whole thing might be wander's doing
that's where vision came in but that
unwelcome reality check makes wonder see
him for a moment as his former corpse
form
a dead shell reanimated to act like
vision but
not alive and vision himself seems to
recognize
even more that something isn't right the
super parents still have to look after
the babies but
wonder confirms that they can't be
affected by her own magic
and they continue to wail thankfully
agnes pops in
and has a few tricks up her sleeve for
making kids quiet
but vision in a parental panic doesn't
trust her with them
and agnes as if breaking character
during a recording
asks wanda directly if they want to take
that one again from the top
and let her take the kids and after a
weird moment
wanda laughs this off despite agnes not
fully dancing to her tune
but this meta timeout happens right in
front of vision who is openly confused
by the exchange
and the babies in the blink of an eye
and now little boys
i guess you can't control kids no matter
how hard you try
back in reality everyone gets a briefing
on wander's past with her brother pietro
and although monica describes her mind
control as a horrible experience
governed by wanda's own grief she
doesn't actually believe that
wonder herself has any direct evil
intent
well hayward lets them all know that she
had actually stormed sword hq
nine days ago and stolen vision's corpse
from their decommissioning area before
bringing him here
and putting up the five-mile hexagonal
barrier around
the town she has him playing the role of
husband and father
but he's also vision and it's a matter
of time
before he learns the truth the kids have
found a cute
dog and want to keep him and dad gets a
preemptive sense that agnes is about to
pop over
just before she conveniently brings the
doghouse through the door
wanda is not really hiding her magic
anymore which troubles her husband
but their friendly neighbor had nothing
to say about the kids growing up
instantly from babies
or even when they accelerate their ages
to 10 in order to be old enough
to keep the papa then at work he somehow
intercepts
some of dr darcy's outside report
findings on the hex barrier over the
town
and more curious than ever he tries
phasing his colleague's mind
out of the spell this momentarily frees
the original person who is horrified at
being in the sunken place whilst
constantly acting against his will
passing into the hex transformed
monika's mind body and clothes
into something appropriate to the
episode setting so they try a drone made
back in the 80s that won't require
any change to fit in with the times so
that monika can talk to wander
but director hayward had also loaded it
with missiles and instead tries to kill
her
to end the hex and save the town that
was a mistake
maximoff stride straight out into the
reality of the sword forward operating
base
and returned the drone that's seething
with her energy
and tells them all to leave her alone
monica believes wanda had trusted her on
at least
some level letting her be in westview
for a reason and
wants to help but maximoff sees hayward
as part of yet another group
trying to take her life away from her
again and she reinforces the barrier of
the hex
sadly in the meantime sparky the dog has
died from eating some poisoned leaves in
agatha's bushes
and wonder makes for children face their
grief forbidding them from any more
accelerated aging just to cheat their
way through life
the kids know that wonder can bring
people back which
openly surprises agnes but the hypocrite
witch
tells them that death is permanent and
later that evening
vision reveals that he's become aware of
wonders mind control
over the town continuing to argue with
her past the end credits that she
started
rolling to end the episode and demanding
to know about the maximoff anomaly
he can't remember anything from before
westview and
wanda although controlling the narrative
claims she's not dictating everything
and that even she can't remember how
this all started
and out of nowhere and not by her doing
there's a knock at the door
her brother pietro has arrived in town
not the quicksilver of the marvel
universe
but recast is for quicksilver from the
x-men
series instead blowing people's minds
well now it's a 90s era malcolm in the
middle style reality where tommy and
billy talk to the camera
and get quick flashback inserts the
presence of uncle pietro is an injection
of energy and for halloween
wonder and vision are dressing as
themselves from their comic book days
but wanda is concerned that her brother
is here and fitting into the narrative
because it's not part of her design and
even vision is making plans
without telling her he's going on
neighborhood patrol duty apparently
while the family get dressed for
halloween the town for the first time
is full of children which vision had
noted the lack of
during their earlier argument and whilst
outside wonder tests pietro's memory of
their childhood but he's far too busy
causing high speed mischief which one of
the kids has inherited too
vision in the meantime is actually
investigating out near the edge of town
to discover that people's
forced actions become more basic the
further out he gets
as if operating on less resources and
over near the barrier's edge
they're simply frozen in place it's a
creepy sight and vision flies up for a
better view to find
agnes by the border unfreezing her mind
she recognizes him as one of the
avengers
but a dead one confirming that wonder
won't let
anyone leave so he heads out past the
edge of town
pietro is aware that wonder has been
controlling everyone
clearly existing outside of her spell
but as her brother
isn't going to give her a hard time over
it he's just impressed and curious
as to how she managed to do all of this
but wanda remembers no
specifics just that she felt completely
alone
back on the base darcy monika and jimmy
are not
impressed with director hayward's
earlier missile strike so he throws them
off base
but instead of leaving they shake off
the guards to operate on their own
much to darcy's surprise they access the
sword database loki to discover that
hayward already has a way to monitor
inside the hex
and that he's been specifically tracking
vision moniker wants to go back in again
but darcy has seen her blood work
passing the barrier has transformed her
cells on a molecular level and there's
no telling what another trip might do to
her but
monica is determined heading out with
jimmy to meet a friend for some backup
while darcy stays on base to try to hack
into more of hayward's files
meanwhile vision has reached the edge of
a barrier and begins to force his way
out into reality the effort comes at
great
cost and unlike those who existed before
the hex went up
trying to leave the area is destroying
him darcy tries to help and ends up
handcuffed whilst he desperately calls
out that the people inside
need help and inside young billy is able
to sense
their father is in danger pietro seems
unconcerned with one comment
too many about vision being re-killed
again so wanda blasts him aside
focusing her powers to expand the border
of the hex
and re-contain vision within it this
envelops the sword base and most of its
agents
transforming them into a circus show on
the edge of town
while hayward narrowly escapes so it's
been a rough night
wander is wrecked and the kids have
noticed that things keep shifting around
the house that mum can't control anymore
tommy's got that super speed while
billy's inherited psychic powers
hearing the mental noise of the town the
kids are concerned about uncle pietro
and
wanda confirms that man is not their
uncle
but that she doesn't have any other
answers
she's at her mental wits end and
thankfully agnes is there just in time
to have the kids round her house
and give wanda some space although she
does mention that she bit a kid wants to
camera
and in wonder's own time to get her head
straight
a voice behind the camera breaks
convention and
asks if she thinks she deserves this the
expansion of the hex thankfully stopped
and
vision awakes to the converted former
sword base in venue rolls
everyone's doing an aside to camera and
darcy is trapped in a role of the
juiciest escape artist in town
vision frees her mind and they set out
for a catch-up session
where she explains pretty much the whole
events of the mcu
from the age of ultron up to the end of
infinity war
but the edge of west view goes full
truman show on the two of them
in order to delay their movements and
fed up with the weird formatting of this
existence
vision flies off to take action
meanwhile over at agnes place
the kids are enjoying the break and
billy likes that it's quieter here
unlike most of the town agnes's mind is
closed to him
which seems to repulse her moniker has
met up with her contact from the old
space days of sword to get a hardcore
space rover to force
entry back into west view and gets
immediately rejected
even at ramming speed the best she
manages is to get half of it rewritten
into an old truck
before she bails but she won't give up
and she forces her way through the
barrier on foot
the hex rewrites the role of everything
that comes through
but monica's cells have already been
modified twice
and this time she uses her childhood
memories to reconcile for splitting
personas and
unify herself against the barrier coming
out of the other side
more than the person she was going in
now seeing
on an expanded wavelength so she tries
to convince wanda to drop the barrier
and is once again rebuffed but monica's
starting to flex her new muscles
and continues to try to make a
connection with maximoff
almost getting through but agnes
interjects
and takes wanda back over to her place
to get away from all the stress
she pops the kettle on and guides wonder
down to the basement
who wants to see her children and is
sensing that something is wrong
but the space continues on like a stone
dungeon
and the aspect ratio of the show shifts
back into reality
this place is not part of the hex and
so agatha harkness finally reveals
herself as the evil witch
that's really been pulling the strings
this whole time with her own
tv intro that shows her behind the
scenes
manipulating every episode and conjuring
up pietro as
well as killing the dog manipulating
wonder's mental state
the whole time and peeking in on the
property
moniker is now able to directly see the
purple energy of agatha's lair
before being caught by pietro so let's
take a look back to salem massachusetts
in 1693
where a coven of witches convened to
execute one of their own
for studying forbidden evil arts but
agatha harkness has already grown too
powerful to submit
and as they try to destroy her she
instead
siphons off their power absorbing their
very life force
including that of her own mother so in
modern day she's
very interested in wonder who despite
not seeming to know the fundamentals of
witchcraft and safe spaces
has been using witch-like powers to put
a transmutation spell
over an entire town's reality while mind
controlling its entire population
agatha is just burning to know her
secrets and almost got it
when controlling pietro so it's time for
a direct follow-up as
agafor forces wander to relive key
moments of her life
and discover the trigger point for
producing such powerful magic
starting with her childhood in sarkovia
where her father used to sell bootleg
dvds
and the family would watch old sitcoms
together
but during armed conflict her parents
were killed
and the children lay in terror at the
threat of an undetonated stark missile
for two days
but this trauma isn't what agatha is
looking for
so next up is her time being radicalized
by those events
as a hydra volunteer and it's here that
loki's scepter
reacts to her presence and the mind
stone within it
grants her its energy where so many
others had failed
but there's something else present in
that moment as well
something that a power had edited out of
even
hydra's knowledge she gained power
directly from the infinity stone
but it was also amplifying something in
her
that was already there and after her
brother's death
as she sought more escapism in sitcom tv
shows
just like during most of her life her
relationship with vision
began to blossom he's someone who has
never experienced loss
because he's never had someone to lose
and without him there in her life she
arrived at sword for his body
except she did not raid the facility the
way director hayward described it
he actually allowed her to view the
decommissioning
of visions remains and oddly it's him
who first suggests the idea of wanda's
power
being able to bring him back online it's
a tough sight for her and they won't let
her bury three billion dollars worth of
man machine
in a grave with hayward almost wanting
her to try something
so wonder says her goodbyes and leaves
without
the body and so she drives to the quiet
town of westview where before the events
of infinity war
they had purchased a plot of land to
build a home that
they could grow old in together and it's
here that in her grief she breaks down
her witch powers start to increase to
envelop the town
and it's the separate energy of the
infinity stone stored within her that is
able to directly recreate
vision who is powered by the original
thing setting her escapist fantasy
into motion of her sitcom reality world
agatha has seen enough and brings out
the kids
on a leash wonder is a being that is
able to cause
spontaneous creation using chaos magic
her abilities might have been activated
by exposure to the infinity stone
but she is in fact a legend among magic
users the scarlet witch and so that
means this whole time
sword have been in possession of
vision's real body
and it turns out that hayward had pushed
that 80s drone strike on wanda
just so that she would deflect it using
her own unique brand
of energy magic so that he could use it
to power the corpse
shell of the former avenger agatha's
plan is to absorb
all of wonder's magic power draining her
in the process
while the kids stay inside even pulling
a cheeky wizard of oz
as white vision arrives to confuse her
more
and squeeze her head with his
programming set
to destroy her and her husband but
vision the real one which is in fact the
fake one arrives to protect his family
so while good and bad vision fight and
phase in the skies
agatha uses her superior witch
experience and
information from her book of the damned
to continue to hit her on a
psychological level
releasing the town's people from
wonder's spell they force her to address
her actions
and beg to be freed they want to see
their loved ones and to no longer have
to feel her pain
wanda tries to make out that she's not
abusing their human rights by choking
them for a moment
before finally opening up the hex out of
guilt to allow them to leave
but that's causing good vision to not
quite exist
including her children causing a bit of
a conundrum and making her close the hex
again
for their sake but not before the sneaky
sword team drove in
through the gaps meanwhile monika who's
under quicksilver house arrest
realizes he's just another trapped
townsperson after all
and removes agatha's control so while
the witches fight
and the kids take on sword she arrives
just in time to stop hayward from
killing children at the peak of her new
photon power and darcy rams him with a
truck to put an
end to his evil director scheming vision
on vision action continues
like an alternative skin selection
immortal combat
but they are both hyper advanced
thinking machines with a british accent
and so they eventually turn the fight
into a conversation
white visions programming is to destroy
good vision
but good vision doesn't really exist
anymore
and with permission he unlocks all of
his former avenger memories stored away
in the files of his former physical body
and
white vision now with a new sense of
self-identity
decides to get the hell out of there
wanda tries some of her old mind tricks
from the age of ultron days
by digging into agatha's past but she's
able to pull a reverse uno
and control her own mind offering to
allow wanda to keep her fantasy world
if she gives up her power in return
agapha has the upper hand
and wanda fires her energy everywhere
only to have it drained
and absorbed as the crone had planned
but
in the last moment she's unable to cast
wander down
as it looks like the scarlet witch is a
fast
learner having turned the entire hex
into a safe space of her own
and so wanda owns her new power and
status
and defeats agatha under her own terms
and then she locks the mind of the evil
witch away
choosing her plucky agnes disguise to
now instead
be her permanent prison it all comes to
an
end and wonder allows for hex to slowly
collapse
for true spending one final evening with
her family
as the walls slowly collapse towards the
house
the proud parents tuck the children in
after an eventful day
and wonder is grateful to know them then
in their final moments of the hex vision
asks to know just what he really is
and she tells him the piece of the mind
stone that lives within her
blood wires and bone her sadness
and her hope but mostly her love
who knows what he might be next and with
that
she is able to say goodbye having worked
through her grief
and only at the cost of the human rights
of every single person
in town so she apologizes to monica and
then leaves before the police arrive to
start a new
chapter in understanding her powers as
the scarlet witch
and in her studies managing to hear an
echo of her children oh my god
meanwhile as jimmy leads for clear up
and hayward gets arrested
monika with her new power is approached
by the skrull
who might have a job for her among the
stars
so thanks a lot for watching and i hope
you've enjoyed having one division
crammed inside of you putting together
these full recaps takes ages
so a great big thank you to everybody
who's liked commented and subscribed i
read them all
and it's great fun so let me know in the
comments what we're going to be cramming
for a future video
and i'll see you next time take care